# 401
## read01
### Sunday May 17 2020

**Hello and welcome to my 401-Read01 notes!**

1. Why would you want to run JavaScript code outside of a browser?


to easily let your javascript code  interact with your database, also to be able to benefit from using nodejs to create RESTful APIs.


2. What is the difference between a module and a package?


a module is a reusable piece of JavaScript which exports specific objects, making them available for other modules to require in their programs. However, a package is one or more of those modules grouped (or packaged) together.


3. What does the node package manager do?

It puts modules in place so that node can find them, and manages dependency conflicts intelligently.


4. provide code snippets showing 3 different ways to export a function from a node module:
        1. module.exports 
        2. require
        3. exports.method

#### My Dictionary:

- ecosystem: a collection of software projects, which are developed and co-evolve in the same environment.

- Node.js: a platform built on Chrome's JavaScript runtime for easily building fast and scalable network applications.

- V8 Engine: an open-source JavaScript engine that powers Google Chrome. It's the thing that takes our JavaScript and executes it while browsing with Chrome.

- module: a reusable piece of JavaScript which exports specific objects, making them available for other modules to require in their programs.

- package: one or more modules (libraries) grouped (or packaged) together.

- node package manager (npm): It puts modules in place so that node can find them, and manages dependency conflicts intelligently.

- server: manages access to a centralized resource or service in a network.

- environment: where a developer can create extensions, configurations, and other custom assets.

- interpreter: a computer program that directly executes instructions written in a programming or scripting language, without requiring them previously to have been compiled into a machine language program.

- compiler: a program that translates a source program written in some high-level programming language into machine code for some computer architecture.



