# 401
## read02
### Monday May 18 2020

**Hello and welcome to my 401-Read01 notes!**

1. Name 3 advantages to Test Driven Development


- You receive fast feedback.
- You create a detailed specification.
- You reduce time spent on rework.

2. In what case would you need to use beforeEach() or afterEach() in a test suite?


If they are present in both a Context and its parent Describe, BeforeEach blocks in the Describe scope are executed first, followed by BeforeEach blocks in the Context scope. AfterEach blocks are the reverse of this, with the Context AfterEach blocks executing before Describe.

3. What is one downside of Test Driven Development


No silver bullet: Tests help to find bugs, but they can't find bugs that you introduce in the test code and in implementation code. If you haven't understood the problem you need to solve, writing tests most probably doesn't help.

4. What’s the primary difference between ES6 Classes and Constructor/Prototype Classes?


The most important difference between class- and prototype-based inheritance is that a class defines a type which can be instantiated at runtime, whereas a prototype is itself an object instance.

5. Name a use case for a static method

Calling static methods from another static method


6. Write an example of a Higher Order function and describe the use case it solves


[1, 2, 3].map(function(n){
    return n * n
})

This higher-order function (map) takes an anonymous function as its argument and returns a new array of the squared elements of the original array

#### My Dictionary:

- Functional Programming:  functional programming is the use of higher-order functions.

- Pure Function: a function that always returns the same result if the same arguments are passed in.

- Higher-Order Function: a function that can take another function as an argument, or that returns a function as a result.

- Immutable State: the state where an object cannot be modified after it is created.

- Object: an unordered collection of related data, of primitive or reference types, in the form of “key: value” pairs.

- OOP (object-oriented programming):  a type of computer programming in which programmers define the data type of a data structure, and also the types of functions that can be applied to the data structure.

- Class:  a type of function.

- Prototype: an object that is associated with every functions and objects by default in JavaScript

- Super: used to call the constructor of the parent class and to access the parent's properties and methods.

- Inheritence: the notion that one object's methods/properties are available to be used via another object.

- Constructor: a function that initializes an object.

- Instance: a reference to an “object” created by “new” or the equivalent.

- Test Driven Development (TDD): a process for writing software that provably satisfies the software requirements.

- Jest: a library for testing JavaScript code.

- Continuous Integration (CI): a development practice that requires developers to integrate code into a shared repository several times a day.

- Unit Test: runs some code over a segment of your program checking the input and output.