# 401

## Read16

### Monday Jun 13 2020

**Hello and welcome to my 401-Read17 notes!**

## TCP Servers

### Event Queues

 Generally, services can communicate with one another through a central “Hub” server (Queue) which receives all inbound messages, scrubs the content, and then broadcasts those messages to connected subscribers.

### OSI Model

OSI model has been since the 80s, and continues now to accurately describe the different processes in computer networking, and is still widely used as a point of reference while working in networked systems today.

i.e :
- Transport Layer
- Measured with Segment / Datagram
- Responsible for the reliable transmission of data between points on a network
- (TCP and UDP)

### Internet Protocol Suite

Is the conceptual model for the protocols used by the internet. It is often referred to as TCP/IP because the IP and TCP were the original protocols in the suite.

- TCP : Transmission Control Protocol, creates a two-way communication between two hosts. TCP segments are transferred as IP packets, each packet between the hosts carries a single TCP segment. The segment contains a header and data sections. 

- TCP HEADER

The TCP Header is used at each end to control the type of interaction being sent. It contains:
Byte 0: Source port
Byte 3: Destination port
Byte 4: Sequence number
Byte 8: Acknowledgement number
Byte 12: Data Offset, NS flag, and 3 undefined bits
Byte 13: CWR, ECE, URG, ACK, PSH, RST, SYN, and FYN flags
Byte 14: Window size
Byte 16: Checksum
Byte 18: Urgent pointer
Byte 20: Options

TCP header holds the needed information for the connection establishment, as well as the connection termination.